Add `SEV rating` (#8459)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team/SEV_rating/en.md

# SEV rating

> SEV is a measurement system used by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) to rate how relevant a [nomination reset](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nomination-resets) is to the evaluations of the nominating [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators) (*BN*), providing both transparency and consistency. This measurement is split up into two values and displayed as "*Obviousness/Severity*". Both values range from 0 to 2, making it a simple to understand and quick to use system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SEV is a measurement system used by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) to rate how relevant a [nomination reset](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nomination-resets) is to the evaluations of the nominating [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators) (*BN*), providing both transparency and consistency. This measurement is split up into two values and displayed as *Obviousness/Severity*. Both values range from 0 to 2, making it a simple to understand and a quick-to-use system.
```

> SEV is a measurement system used by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) to rate how relevant a [nomination reset](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nomination-resets) is to the evaluations of the nominating [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators) (*BN*), providing both transparency and consistency. This measurement is split up into two values and displayed as "*Obviousness/Severity*". Both values range from 0 to 2, making it a simple to understand and quick to use system.

Reviewer: what does sev specifically have to do with transparency

Author: transparency to how we roughly view each reset and how they might factor in evals, so people know whether a reset is either minor or concerning, and anything in between

> ***Important to note:*** *A reset done to fix things which would be considered fine if left unfixed are always rated 0/0. This is to not discourage modding and applying improvements in [Qualified](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#qualified).*
> 
> ## Obviousness and Severity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Obviousness and severity

*Note: A reset done to fix things which would be considered fine if left unfixed are always rated 0/0. This is to not discourage modding and applying improvements in [Qualified](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#qualified).*
```

**Obviousness** relates to how easy it is to spot the issue.

| Rating | Definition | Explanation |

> | :-- | :-- | :-- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :-: | :-- | :-- |
```

| 0 | Not obvious | Applies if the issue is obscure or too granular to consistently catch on to. |

> | 1 | Can be found with experience | Requires knowledge / experience / attentiveness to catch. Can typically not be found by tools or regular users, e.g. timing / metadata issues. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1 | Can be found with experience | Requires knowledge/experience/attentiveness to catch. Can typically not be found by tools or regular users, e.g. timing/metadata issues. |
```

> | 2 | Can be found at a glance | Likely something that could be spotted by a regular user, or that wouldn’t have been missed when checking and using tools properly. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2 | Can be found at a glance | Likely something that could be spotted by a regular user, or that would not have been missed when checking and using tools properly. |
```

**Severity** relates to how much the issue impacts gameplay.

| Rating | Definition | Explanation |

> | :-- | :-- | :-- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :-: | :-- | :-- |
```

> | 0 | Negligible | Doesn't or hardly affects gameplay. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0 | Negligible | Does not or hardly affects gameplay. |
```

| 1 | Worth noting | Impacts gameplay negatively but not significantly. |

> | 2 | Moderate design flaw | Harms gameplay to the point where it's typically also noticeable to a regular user, e.g. a big jump in a low difficulty. In practice, this is often a combination of multiple notable reasons, e.g. being both too difficult to read and an unwarranted difficulty spike. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2 | Moderate design flaw | Harms gameplay to the point where it is typically also noticeable to a regular user, e.g. a big jump in a low difficulty. In practice, this is often a combination of multiple notable reasons, such as being both too difficult to read and an unwarranted difficulty spike. |
```

Below are examples of SEV ratings and how they are roughly interpreted by evaluators:

| SEV | Description |
| :-- | :-- |

> | **0/0** | This reset is insignificant and ignored for the purpose of evaluations. |
> | **0/1** | Something went wrong here but it’s hard to blame the BNs, as it was difficult to spot. |
> | **1/0** | Could've been fixed if the BNs had been more attentive, but isn’t a significant issue. |
> | **1/1** | Something went wrong here that could have been fixed if the BNs were more attentive. |
> | **1/2** | Often means many things went wrong, but all require experience to spot easily. |
> | **2/0** | Some glaring issue in the map’s settings, like metadata, was somehow missed. |
> | **2/1** | Some glaring issue in the map's gameplay, like no hitsounding, was missed. |
> | **2/2** | An issue so severe that it is difficult not to spot, like concurrent hit objects, was missed. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0/0 | This reset is insignificant and ignored for the purpose of evaluations. |
| 0/1 | Something went wrong but it is hard to blame the BNs, as it was difficult to spot. |
| 1/0 | Could have been fixed if the BNs had been more attentive, but is not a significant issue. |
| 1/1 | Something went wrong that could have been fixed if the BNs were more attentive. |
| 1/2 | Often means many things went wrong, but all require experience to spot easily. |
| 2/0 | Some glaring issue in the map's settings, like metadata, was somehow missed. |
| 2/1 | Some glaring issue in the map's gameplay, like no hitsounding, was missed. |
| 2/2 | An issue so severe that it is difficult not to spot, like concurrent hit objects, was missed. |
```

> ## How SEV is used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage
```

> SEV ratings are used in the evaluations of the Beatmap Nominators, weighed against how many nominations they've done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SEV ratings are used in the [evaluations of Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team/Evaluations), weighed against how many nominations they have done.
```

> Mistakes happen and a healthy amount will help with learning, but if they happen too frequently or the same mistakes repeat, then that's a problem. This is why evaluations don't focus on individual SEV ratings, but take the entire picture into account on a case-by-case basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mistakes happen and a healthy amount will help with learning, but if they happen too frequently or the same mistakes repeat, then that is a problem. This is why evaluations do not focus on individual SEV ratings, but take the entire picture into account on a case-by-case basis.
```

## Common reset reasons

> *Makes up 90% of all resets.*

Reviewer: something like

```suggestion
*This data comprises 90% of all resets.*
```

would make more sense

> *Makes up 90% of resets.*
> 
> Here is an exhaustive list of reasons nominations have been reset for with their respective SEV rating. These are based on stats of all SEV ratings set in the osu! game mode from February 2020 to April 2021, with percentages to show how common issues are.

Reviewer: what does this first line mean? this?

```suggestion
Below is an exhaustive list of reasons nominations have been reset for with their respective SEV rating. These are based on statistics of all SEV ratings set in the osu! game mode from February 2020 to April 2021, with percentages to show how common issues are. The categories listed make up 90% of resets.
```

Author: it means that we've basically took 90% of all the resets in the timeframe mentioned below and analyzed them, I assume the other 10% are resets that are either too obscure or not worth mentioning, hence the "common reset reasons" section title

> ***Important to note:*** *This list does not cover every possible reset reason, and the NAT may rate resets for the same reasons listed differently, depending on the specific context.*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This list does not cover every possible reset reason, and the NAT may rate resets for the same reasons listed differently, depending on the specific context.
```

### Metadata

*Makes up 22% of notable resets, 30% of resets.*

> Metadata resets *never* have a severity above 0, as they don't affect gameplay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Metadata resets *never* have a severity above 0, as they do not affect gameplay.
```

- **0/0:** (70%)
  - Adding tags for a new Featured Artist
  - Adding guest mappers to tags due to a username change

>   - Adding tags that are more descriptive but aren’t required by the Ranking Criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Adding tags that are more descriptive but are not required by the ranking criteria
```

  - Resets due to the addition of a new rule
  - Difficulty name changes
- **1/0:** (23%)
  - Romanised artist name order
  - Small romanisation and capitalisation errors

>   - 1 wrong character, spelling mistakes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 1 wrong character, spelling mistakes, etc.
```

  - Missing genre/language tags
- **2/0:** (5%)

>   - Missing guest mappers from tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Missing guest mappers in tags
```

>   - Missing unicode field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Missing Unicode field
```

  - Wrong artist/title/source

### Mapping

> *Makes up 23% of notable resets, 18% of resets.*

Reviewer: either:

- use "regular resets" for all of these, to make it clear that they're not supersets of "notable resets"
- use "of all resets", and sum up the values (23+18=41%)

correct me if i'm misunderstanding this

Reviewer 2: This terminology ("notable resets" = "resets" that are not 0/0) is likely only understood by NAT, so changing or clarifying this is probably a good idea.

However, the difference between *any* resets and *notable* resets is massive, so let's not sum it up. The intent behind the percentages is to show how often they are considered in evaluations compared to other reset categories. Through this we can, for example, see that metadata resets are considered much less than timing resets.

This would be less vague and a step in the right direction if nothing else:
```suggestion
*Makes up 23% of all >0/0 resets, 18% of all resets.*
```

Reviewer: ah ok, let's go with that wording then

Resets due to mapping issues rarely have 2 in obviousness, as they require good mapping/modding knowledge to identify easily.

- **0/0:** (46%)
  - Any changes from a state that was already acceptable, regardless of amount of changes:

>     - Fixing a broken stack (that doesn't affect readability)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fixing a broken stack (that does not affect readability)
```

    - Adjusting a few patterns to improve a buildup
    - Remapping an acceptable difficulty entirely because the mapper was unsatisfied with it
- **1/1:** (28%)

>   - The usual mapping mistakes that negatively impact the map to a notable degree

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Common mapping mistakes that negatively impact the map to a notable degree
```

>     - Unwarranted difficulty spikes (as-in not fitting the song)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Unwarranted difficulty spikes (as in not fitting the song)
```

    - Dense rhythms/high spacing in calm sections
    - Overmapping in a way that is introduced/executed poorly
    - Mapping a big stream over multiple distinct layers and sounds
- **1/2:** (14%)
  - Same reasons as for 1/1, but more severe; typically a combination

### Timing

*Makes up 15% of notable resets, 8% of resets.*

- **0/0:** (20%)
  - Adjusting the preview point/kiai time
  - Adding a red line to account for the Nightcore mod
  - Using double/half BPM
  - Slightly wrong offset

>     - Simple timing (< 6 ms off)
>     - Complex timing (< 10 ms off)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For simple timing, < 6 ms off)
    - For complex timing, < 10 ms off)
```

- **1/0:** (11%)
  - Wrong time signature
- **1/1:** (49%)
  - Wrong offset
    - Single timing (~6–12 ms off)
    - Complex timing (~10+ ms off)

### Files

*Makes up 13% of notable resets, 16% of resets.*

> File resets almost never have a severity above 0, as they usually don't affect gameplay. An exception being using storyboarded hitsounds as replacement for active ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Resets related to beatmap files almost never have a severity above 0, as they usually do not affect gameplay. An exception is using storyboarded hitsounds as replacement for active ones.
```

- **0/0:** (64%)
  - Any change made from an already acceptable/rankable state, for example:
    - Improving the audio from 128 kbps to 192 kbps
    - Any harmless changes to the background, storyboard, or skin

>     - Inappropriate background(s) (where it isn't obvious)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Inappropriate background(s) (where it is not obvious)
```

- **1/0:** (19%)

>   - Using an audio that was encoded upwards from a lower bitrate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Using audio that has been encoded upwards from a lower bitrate
```

  - Using hitsound samples that affect gameplay negatively in the default skin
- **2/0:** (6%)
  - Unused file(s)
  - Missing video on some difficulties

>   - Content that's obviously inappropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Content that is obviously inappropriate
```

### Snapping

*Makes up 9% of notable resets, 4% of resets.*

- **0/0:** (11%)
  - AiMod incorrectly detecting an object less than 2 ms off as unsnapped

>   - Slightly missnapped slider end that tools can't detect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Slightly mis-snapped slider end that tools cannot detect
```

- **1/0:** (21%)
  - Missnaps that hardly affect gameplay

>     - Slightly missnapped slider end that tools could help find

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Slightly mis-snapped slider end that tools could help find
```

>     - An object being only off by a few milliseconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - An object being off by only a few milliseconds
```

- **1/1:** (42%)
  - Missnaps that are difficult to notice when playing, but sometimes cause 100s
- **1/2:** (8%)

>   - Missnaps that notably affect gameplay
>     - Missnaps that always cause 100s, sometimes 50s or even note-locks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Mis-snaps that notably affect gameplay
    - Mis-snaps that always cause 100s, sometimes 50s, or even note locks
```

>     - Causes abnormal spacing to following/previous notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Mis-snaps causing abnormal spacing to following/previous notes
```

>     - A missnap part of a stream, burst, or triple (that can't be a simplification)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A mis-snap part of a stream, burst, or triple (that cannot be a simplification)
```

# SEV rating

SEV is a measurement system used by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) to rate how relevant a [nomination reset](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nomination-resets) is to the evaluations of the nominating [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators) (*BN*), providing both transparency and consistency. This measurement is split up into two values and displayed as "*Obviousness/Severity*". Both values range from 0 to 2, making it a simple to understand and quick to use system.

***Important to note:*** *A reset done to fix things which would be considered fine if left unfixed are always rated 0/0. This is to not discourage modding and applying improvements in [Qualified](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#qualified).*

> 
> ## Disclaimers
> 
> 1. This article is **NOT a guide**, it's a historical archive that's meant to aid understanding of SEV.
> 2. All of the cases mentioned in [Common reset reasons](#common-reset-reasons) are **NOT examples**, they are real resets from the osu! game mode.
> 3. The purpose of this article is **NOT to be strictly followed by the NAT**, it's to give a point of reference for how the NAT has historically and statistically handled SEV ratings.

Reviewer 2: After thinking about this for a bit, let's remove this entirely. I think this being copied onto the page was a bit of a misunderstanding, as it was more directed internally.

1. & 3. The article could actually be treated as a guide, pretty sure I more meant to say that it shouldn't be blindly followed. We stated that we handle everything case-by-case and that ratings may differ depending on context, so there should be no reason for people to think we follow this strictly, unless they just didn't read.
    - (Which someone didn't in the past, leading to a big discussion that immediately ended when I pointed out that part of the text - honestly don't think this is the document's fault; we shouldn't need to emphasize it more.)
3. We already stated that they are real cases right before we list them. This point was more directed at us previously having referred to the cases as "examples", and wasn't meant to make it onto the page.

```suggestion
```

# SEV rating

SEV is a measurement system used by the [Nomination Assessment Team](/wiki/People/The_Team/Nomination_Assessment_Team) (*NAT*) to rate how relevant a [nomination reset](/wiki/Beatmap_ranking_procedure#nomination-resets) is to the evaluations of the [Beatmap Nominators](/wiki/People/The_Team/Beatmap_Nominators) (*BN*), providing both transparency and consistency. This measurement is split up into two values and displayed as "*Obviousness/Severity*". Obviousness values range from 0 to 2, while severity values range from 0 to 3, making it a simple and quick way to understand the impact of nomination resets.

***Important to note:*** *A reset done to fix things which would be considered fine if left unfixed are always rated 0/0. This is to not discourage modding and applying improvements in [Qualified](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#qualified).*

## Disclaimers

1. This article is **NOT a guide**, it's a historical archive that's meant to aid understanding of SEV.
2. All of the cases mentioned in [Common reset reasons](#common-reset-reasons) are **NOT examples**, they are real resets from the osu! game mode.

> 3. The purpose of this article is **NOT to be strictly followed by the NAT**, it's to give a point of reference for how the NAT has historically and statistically handled SEV ratings.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8459#discussion_r1047885399 instead

| 3 | More or less unplayable | Contains game-breaking elements that make the map impossible to properly play, e.g. two objects on the same tick. |

Below are examples of SEV ratings (formatted as *Obviousness/Severity*) and how they are roughly interpreted by evaluators:

| SEV | Description |
| :-- | :-- |
| **0/0** | This reset is insignificant and ignored for the purpose of evaluations. |
| **0/1** | Something went wrong here but it’s hard to blame the BNs, as it was difficult to spot. |
| **1/0** | Could've been fixed if the BNs had been more attentive, but isn’t a significant issue. |
| **1/1** | Something went wrong here that could have been fixed if the BNs were more attentive. |
| **1/2** | Often means many things went wrong, but all require experience to spot easily. |
| **2/0** | Some glaring issue in the map’s settings, like metadata, was somehow missed. |
| **2/1** | Some glaring issue in the map's gameplay, like no hitsounding, was missed. |

> | **2/2** | A concerning combination of glaring issue that affect gameplay very negatively. |
> | **2/3** | A game-breaking issue that makes the map unplayable. |

Reviewer 2: Oh, and following the above, this should be:
```suggestion
| **2/2** | An issue so severe that it is difficult not to spot, like concurrent hit objects, was missed. |
```
